---
layout: post
title:  "The 7 Habits of Effective People Getting Things Done (with Pomodoro)"
date:   2016-01-14 12:00:00 -0700
categories: blog post 
---


**This is a work in progress - Jan 14, 2017**


I'm not as productive as I could be. 

Bill Gates is [curing malaria][BillGates], Elon Musk is friggin' trying to [put people on Mars][ElonMusk]; what am I doing? [Not much in comparison][Me].

[BillGates]: http://www.gatesfoundation.org/What-We-Do/Global-Health/Malaria 
[ElonMusk]: http://www.spacex.com/mars
[Me]: /about 

Admittedly, these people are anomolies. They're not like you and I, right?
Certainly they're destined for greatness while we're content to Netflix and Chill (not that those things are mutually exclusive). But maybe we're closer to these productive freaks of nature than we think we are.

## How can I be prolific?

I spent a week or so researching productivity methods and I settled on a few
that I'm trying to incorporate into my life. Now, you've really got to be
careful when researching productivity, there's a trap there. Reading about
productivity is alluring. So alluring that you *can* spend a lot of time reading
about *being productive* without actually *being productive*.

My advice: pick a thing or two and stick with it. Reassess in 3 months. Avoid
the trap of productivity porn&#42;

&#42;[real-ish term, I promise.](http://lifehacker.com/5932142/avoid-the-trap-of-productivity-porn)

## What I picked.

After a bit of research, I decided to pick three that I

1. had already heard of and
2. were very popular

I picked three because... well, mostly on accident. After picking one very
popular producivity, I realized that it only really covered a certain 'frame' of
productivity. The others, build out the middle.

## So what are they?!

So, without too much more adieu, the unveiling; I picked:

* #### [The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People] [7habits]
* #### [David Allen's *Getting Things Done*] [gtd]
* #### [Pomodoro] []

[7habits]: https://www.stephencovey.com/7habits/7habits.php
[gtd]: http://gettingthingsdone.com
[pomodoro]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique

Why three? First I started with the obvious and often used Getting Things Done.
It's *the standard* for productivity methods. I knew I was going to use it
before I even started my research. But then I noticed that GTD doesn't fill out
the edges. GTD is great for actually Getting Things Done but it doesn't talk
about what things you should be getting done; that's where the 7 Habits of
Highly Effective People comes in. 

Seven Habits really talks about the big picture, life. It's a philosophy for
success more than a set of productivity tools. GTD talks about how to get those things done in the weekly, monthly,
yearly sense but doesn't really focus on down to the minute. That's where Pomodoro comes in.

### The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People

What are the 7 habits?

* Be Proactive
* Begin with the End in Mind
* First things First
* Win-Win
* Understand, then be Understood
* Synergize
* Sharpen the Saw

## Personal

##### Be Proactive
Might be somewhat self-explanatory but it's a required foundation to success. You've got to take control of your life and just spend your life reacting to events.

##### Begin with the End in Mind
What's your goal? Mine's *entrepreneurship*. Set your sites on your goal and make your plans toward it.

##### First things First
What are first things? Whatever you want them to be! Put yourself first.

##### Win-Win
The world isn't always the zero-sum game we think it is. Abundance. Creating value just creates value. If we both create value, we both win.

##### Understand, then be Understood
Alright, most of us are listening auto-biographically and responding with *our* viewpoints. Listen! Try and understand 

##### Synergize

synergy: "The whole is greater than the sum of its parts"


##### Sharpen the Saw
Dudes and dudettes, keep getting better.


### Getting Things Done

Getting things done:

* In list.
* Projects
* Someday/Maybe
* etc.. 

### Pomodoro

Pomodoro:

* Break up your chunks into 30 minutes.



